#type: node
#context: sop_state
#internal: polyknit
#icon: SOP/polyknit

= Poly Knit =

"""Stitches together two disjoint sets of polygons."""

Poly Knit can be used to manually knit joining polygons between existing
polygons. Polygons are created by specifying a list of input points from
which to "knit" the new polygons. Both triangles and quadrilaterals can
be created.

Click on at least three geometry points to define a knitting path, then
((RMB)) to complete. To modify the path after it has been completed,
((Shift + LMB)) anywhere to continue building the path.
((Shift + LMB)) close to an end-point along the path to continue
building from that end-point.

With only four points specified, PolyKnit can find two paths of unshared
connected edges and use their points to knit polygons. Each of the paths
is called a "meta" edge. The polygons that are created along these paths
can either be triangles or quadrilaterals. The paths are computed to
minimize the number of edges that are produced (and thus minimizing the
number of polygons that are produced). The "meta" edges are drawn in a
thicker line to give visual feedback that the resulting knit will
produce multiple polygons for this edge. Clicking ((MMB)) on the next
point will disable "meta" edge detection for that edge and will force
PolyKnit to use only the edge that was specified.

It is important to note that points are specified in a strip-like
fashion. The points should be specified in an order such that they
zig-zag along the geometry to knit. The first two points, for example,
should each belong to the opposite geometries that are to be knitted
together.

If the points are being specified interactively, the operation will try
to automatically determine whether the polygons created should be
triangles or quads. For example, to start knitting first click on a
vertex, then click on a vertex of the opposite set. Now, if the third
point clicked belongs to the first set, we build triangles, otherwise we
build quads. This process is carried out throughout the knit, allowing
you to intermix the creation of quads and triangles. ((Ctrl + LMB)) anywhere will swap the last knit between triangles and quad. For
example, if the last two knits were triangles, ((Ctrl + LMB)) will turn
them into a quad; or if the last knit was a quad, ((Ctrl + LMB)) will
turn it into two triangles.



@related
    - [Poly Cap|Node:sop/polycap]
    - [Poly Loft|Node:sop/polyloft]
    - [Poly Stitch|Node:sop/polystitch]

