= Clay =

#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: clay
#icon: SOP/clay
#tags: reshape, splines, model, smooth

"""Lets you deform NURBS faces and NURBS surfaces by pulling points that lie
directly on them."""

As opposed to the Point op or other ops that
manipulate control points (CVs), the Clay op operates on the primitive
contours themselves, providing a direct, intuitive, and unconstrained
way of reshaping geometry. Thus, rather than translating CVs to change
the aspect of the primitive, the Clay op takes the inverse approach of
repositioning the CVs to reflect the tug on the primitive's skin.

The point that defines the area to be modified is called a "target
point" or "target" for short. It is expressed as a (u,v) pair in the
parametric space of the primitive and ranges between 0 and 1 in both U
and V. The image of the target point on the primitive is a 3D point
which Clay can displace in several ways. Furthermore, if the primitive
is a surface, there is are options to pull only the point or a whole
isoparametric curve in either U or V.

Clay does not refine the faces and surfaces unless asked to, so the
complexity of the geometry does not increase. The area affected by the
change varies with each primitive type and topology. In all cases it is
possible to reduce the amount of change by inserting a Refine op before
the Clay op and inserting detail around the target point. For other ways
to increase the locality of the deformation as well as its sharpness,
see U and V Sharpness below.

If a second input is present, it is possible to snap the target (u,v)
point to an (s,t) point on the first primitive of the second input.
Without a second input, the primitives can be made to snap to
themselves. Moreover, the Clay op is able to snap the target to
arbitrary points in space.

Both this op and the [Align SOP|Node:sop/align] can be used effectively
as snapping tools and building blocks for curve networks. The main
difference between the two ops is that Clay deforms the inputs
partially, while Align translates and/or rotates the whole primitive.

The Clay op accepts a mix of any combination of face and surface types.


@parameters
    Group:
        Subset of faces or hulls to deform.
    U/V toggles:
        Parametric direction(s) to deform along.

    == U tab ==

        U:
            #channels: /u

            Parametric location where the deformations occurs.
        U Bias:
            #channels: /ubias

            Amount of pull on either side of the U value.
        U Sharpness:
            #channels: /usharp

            Primitive sharpness in the displaced area.

    == V tab ==

        V:
            #channels: /v

            Parametric location where the deformations occurs.
        V Bias:
            #channels: /vbias

            Amount of pull on either side of the V value.
        V Sharpness:
            #channels: /vsharp

            Primitive sharpness in the displaced area.

    == Matrix ==

        Overview:
            Point transformation is given by a matrix.
        Transform Order:
            Order transformations are applied.
        Rotate Order:
            Order rotations are applied.
        Translate:
            #channels: /tx /ty /tz

            Amount of translation along xyz axes.
        Rotate:
            #channels: /rx /ry /rz

            Amount of rotation about xyz axes.
        Scale:
            #channels: /sx /sy /sz

            Non-uniform scaling along xyz axes.
        Pivot:
            #channels: /px /py /pz

            Local pivot point for transformations.

    == Vector ==

        Overview:
            Point is translated along a vector.
        Distance:
            #channels: /dist

            Translation distance.
        Normal:
            Translate along primitive normal at (u,v).
        Direction:
            #channels: /dirx /diry /dirz

            Translation vector if Normal is off.

    == Point ==

        Overview:
            Point is moved to an absolute xyz position in object space.
        Coordinates:
            #channels: /coordx /coordy /coordz

            Location the point must snap to.

    == Primitive ==

        Overview:
            Point snaps to the (u,v) of the primitive in the 2nd input
            or to a (u,v) on itself if no 2nd input is present.
        U and V:
            #channels: /uvsnap1 /uvsnap2

            Parametric coordinates on the target primitive.

@related
    - [Node:sop/curveclay]
    - [Node:sop/xform]
    - [Node:sop/point]

