#type: node
#context: sop
#icon: SOP/voronoifracturepoints
#internal: voronoifracturepoints

#tags: break

= Voronoi Fracture Points =

"""Given an object and points of impact on the object, this SOP
generates a set of points that can be used as input to the [Voronoi
Fracture|Node:sop/voronoifracture] SOP to simulate fracturing the
object from those impacts."""

The Voronoi Fracture Points SOP takes two primary inputs: the
polygonal mesh upon which to generate fracture points, and a set of
points which represent "impacts" on the mesh.  These impact points can
be generated a number of ways, such as through the [Add|Node:sop/add]
SOP or by [scattering|Node:sop/scatter] points on the surface itself
or a separate object.

This SOP works by generating an impact volume from metaballs copied to
each impact point.  The second input can also accept metaball
primitives directly, which will be merged with any copied metaballs to
form the impact volume.  This volume is then used to divide the input
object into three regions.  

The [Surface|#surface] region is the surface of the object where it
intersects the impact volume.  The [Interior|#interior] region is the
intersection of a volume representation of the object and the impact
volume. The [Exterior|#exterior] region is the volume of the object
that is outside the impact volume.

In the following cross-section diagram of a box with a single impact
point at the end, the purple wireframe represents the impact volume,
yellow indicates the surface region, red the interior region, and blue
the exterior region.

[Image:/images/voronoifracturepoints_regions.png]

Each region has parameters that control the density of points
generated within it, and how
[clustering|Node:sop/voronoifracture#clustering] should be applied by
a subsequent [Voronoi Fracture SOP|Node:sop/voronoifracture]. A point group is also created for
the points generated in each region.

This SOP serves as a key component in [Dynamic
Fracturing|Node:dop/voronoifractureconfigureobject] in DOPs.

NOTE:
    - This node creates a "cluster" attribute on the output points
      that will only have an effect in fracturing if the [Cluster
      Pieces|Node:sop/voronoifracture#clustering] parameter is enabled
      on the __Voronoi Fracture__ SOP.

@inputs
    Geometry for Impact:
        The polygonal geometry around which to generate the fracture points.

    Impact Points and Metaballs:
	Input points, where each point represents an "impact" on the
	object, and metaballs which are merged to form an impact
	volume.

    Optional SDF For Depth Sampling:
	An optional SDF Volume of the object, usually created by
	[IsoOffset|Node:sop/isooffset], used internally in several
	volume-based operations to generate points in the different
	volume regions. If not connected, a default one will be
	created.

@parameters

Impact Radius:
    The radius of the metaball to be copied to each impact point.  
    
    TIP: 
        Each metaball can be transformed by the usual [copying attributes|/copy/instanceattrs] on the impact points.

Snap Points to Object:
   Snap each impact point to the object before copying.

Compute Number of Points:
    Calculate the number of points to scatter in each region based on
    its surface area.

Points Per Area:
    The number of points per unit of surface area.  This can be scaled
    by the __Point Density__ parameter for each region.

Number of Points:
    The number of points to generate.
    
Per Impact:
    Whether the __Number of Points__ parameter specifies the total
    number of generated points or the number of generated points for
    each impact point.
    
Volume Resolution:
    The resolution of the volume representations of the impact
    metaballs and the object.  

Random Seed:
    The random seed for point scattering.
    
Visualize Points:
    Visualize the generated points. The colors for each region are as
    follows: yellow/surface, red/interior, blue/exterior.
    
== Surface == (surface)

Point Density:
    The density of point generation for this region.  If __Compute
    Number Of Points__ is enabled, this parameter is a multiplier of
    the __Points Per Area__ value. If an explicit __Number of Points__
    value is specified, this parameter determines the proportion of
    those points allocated to this region.
    
Surface Offset:
    The amount to offset the generated points from the object surface.
    
Radius Scale:
    The amount to scale the impact radius before calculating the
    surface region.
    
Clustering:
    Use Fracture Settings:
	Create a cluster attribute value of zero for points in this
	region, allowing a subsequent [Voronoi Fracture SOP|Node:SOP/voronoifracture] to override
	with its own values.  Use the parameters on the Voronoi Fracture SOP to control the size of the clustered pieces.
    Disabled:
	Create a unique cluster attribute value for each point in this
	region, disabling clustering for every fractured piece
	subsequently generated.
    Single Piece:
	Create the same cluster value for all points in this region,
	causing all fractured pieces subsequently generated to be
	clustered together as a single piece.
    
== Interior == (interior)

Point Density:
    The density of point generation for this region.  If __Compute
    Number Of Points__ is enabled, this parameter is a multiplier of
    the __Points Per Area__ value. If an explicit __Number of Points__
    value is specified, this parameter determines the proportion of
    those points allocated to this region.
    
Clustering:
    Use Fracture Settings:
	Create a cluster attribute value of zero for points in this
	region, allowing a subsequent [Voronoi Fracture SOP|Node:SOP/voronoifracture] to override
	with its own values.  Use the parameters on the Voronoi
	Fracture SOP to control the size of the clustered pieces.
    Disabled:
	Create a unique cluster attribute value for each point in this
	region, disabling clustering for every fractured piece
	subsequently generated.
    Single Piece:
	Create the same cluster value for all points in this region,
	causing all fractured pieces subsequently generated to be
	clustered together as a single piece.
        
== Exterior == (exterior)

Point Density:
    The density of point generation for this region.  If __Compute
    Number Of Points__ is enabled, this parameter is a multiplier of
    the __Points Per Area__ value. If an explicit __Number of Points__
    value is specified, this parameter determines the proportion of
    those points allocated to this region.
    
Scatter Location:
    At Impact:
        Scatter points at the boundary of the Interior and Exterior regions.
    Exterior Volume:
        Scatter points throughout the exterior volume.
    Both:
        Scatter points at both of the above locations.
        
Impact Offset:
    The offset of the Interior/Exterior boundary when scattering
    using the __At Impact__ or __Both__ setting above.
    
Clustering:
    Use Fracture Settings:
	Create a cluster attribute value of zero for points in this
	region, allowing a subsequent [Voronoi Fracture SOP|Node:SOP/voronoifracture] to override
	with its own values.  Use the parameters on the Voronoi
	Fracture SOP to control the size of the clustered pieces.
    Disabled:
	Create a unique cluster attribute value for each point in this
	region, disabling clustering for every fractured piece
	subsequently generated.
    Single Piece:
	Create the same cluster value for all points in this region,
	causing all fractured pieces subsequently generated to be
	clustered together as a single piece.
    
@related
    - [Voronoi Fracture|Node:sop/voronoifracture]
    - [How to control the effects of voronoi fracture|/dyno/voronoifracture]
