#type: node
#context: obj_state
#internal: fetch
#icon: OBJ_STATE/fetch

= Fetch =

"""The Fetch operation is used to fetch a transform from another object
in the scene."""

The Fetch operation is used to fetch a transform from another object in
the scene. It is used to extract a transform that is inside a different
object subnet, or to simply duplicate an existing object's transform.

You select the object that will be the parent for the new Fetch object,
and right-click to complete the operation. The new fetch object appears,
but there are no handles for this operation.

The Fetch object can fetch the local transform of the object, in which
case the output of the Fetch object is the world transform of its parent
object multiplied by the local transform of the fetched object. It can
also fetch the world transform, in which case the Fetch object creates a
local transform such that its parent object's world transform
multiplied by its own local transform is equal to the world transform of
the object being fetched. This mode of operation is controlled by the
Fetch World Transform parameter available in the operations controls bar
above the viewport. The controls bar also contains a menu to select the
object from which to fetch the local or world transform.

You can change the Fetch object's parent object any time by hitting the
Reselect Geometry button or typing `${h.pane.gview.redoselection}`. If
Secure Selection is turned off, selecting a new object will immediately
complete the selection and connect the new parent. Otherwise, you
right-click to signify that the object selection is complete.

If Secure Selection is turned off, you can select any other object in
the viewport. Doing so will switch to the operation appropriate for that
object type, and the current operation will be exited immediately.




