#type: node
#context: obj_state
#internal: objrbd
#icon: OBJ_STATE/objrbd

= Rigid Body Dynamics =

"""The Rigid Body Dynamics (RBD)operation is used to aid in setting up a
POP network to create a RBD simulation."""

The Rigid Body Dynamics (RBD)operation is used to aid in setting up a
POP network to create a RBD simulation.

To start this operation, select the geometry objects that you wish to
have included in the RBD simulation, and right-click to complete the
operation. Once you have chosen the objects that will be in the
simulation, this operation gives you several ways to modify the
simulation.

The ctrl-right-mouse menu lets you create a force, a fan, or a nail,
point, or rotation constraint. Each of these menu items create a Force
object and a POP that corresponds to the menu item you chose. The
parameters of the Force object are also set to create the desired type
of force.

The operation controls bar above the viewport allows you to turn on
Grouping mode. When in this mode, it is easiest to have Secure Selection
turned off. However, you can always accomplish the same tasks by having
Secure Selection turned on and right-clicking after performing each
selection. This mode allows you to pick which objects in the simulation
are affected by which Force objects. You begin by selecting the Force
object that you wish to do grouping for. Then you select the object or
objects that you want that Force to apply to.

The Point constraint force acts on two sets of objects, constraining
each object in the first group to the corresponding object in the second
group. To do this in the viewport using Grouping mode, first you select
the point constraint object, and then select the objects for the first
group. Then turn on the Group B parameter in the operation controls bar.
Then select the point constraint object again, and then select the
objects for the second group of the point constraint.



