#type: node
#context: obj_state
#internal: paintcapture
#icon: OBJ_STATE/paintcapture

= Paint Capture Layer =

"""The Paint Capture Layer operation allows you to interactively paint
the capture weights of your geometry."""

After choosing this operation, your first task is to select the geometry
to paint, then right-click ( ((RMB))) to complete. The geometry must all
be within one object node.

As you move the mouse over the geometry, you will see a circular brush
follow the surface to show where you would paint. The size of the brush
and its orientation will show you which points will be affected by a
paint operation.

Painting is done to the weights of one bone at a time. You may change
which bone by Ctrl-middle clicking the desired bone.

Like all the brush tools, you have two different brushes: your
Foreground brush and your Background brush. You paint with your
foreground brush using the ((LMB)) and the background with the ((MMB)).
The amount of weight painted is controlled by the "FW" and "BW"
parameters respectively.

NOTE:
    See Brush Tools for useful info.

== Operation Menu ==

    == Paint ==

        This paints your new weight onto the geometry.

    == Eye Dropper ==

        This takes the weight of the point nearest the center of your
        brush and sets it to that brush's painting weight.

    == Smooth ==

        This smoothly blends the weights of nearby points under the
        brush.

    == Erase Changes ==

        This is a local undo - it restores the points under your brush
        to the pre-capturepaint values.

    == Circle / Square / Bitmap Brush ==

        The shape of the brush. The bitmap is set in the operation
        parameters dialog.

    == Orient Brush To Surface ==

        When disabled, the brush is always oriented the same way. This
        is useful when painting crinkly geometry.

    == Accumulate to Stencil ==

        One of the more powerful modes to work with in the Brush
        Operations is the Accumulate To Stencil mode. Unfortunately, it
        isn't as intuitive as the normal, immediate application, mode.
        To understand accumulate to stencil, it is important to note
        that when the mode is off, you are still accumulating to a
        stencil. You are just automatically applying it whenever you let
        go of the mouse button so remain unaware of the fact. However,
        some operations are significantly easier with this mode on.

        For an example, see Accumulate To Stencil Demystified.


The Paint Capture Weights operation allows you to interactively paint
the capture weights of your geometry.

After choosing this operation, your first task is to select the geometry
to paint, then right-click to complete. The geometry must all be within
one object node.

As you move the mouse over the geometry, you will see a circular brush
follow the surface to show where you would paint. The size of the brush
and its orientation will show you which points will be affected by a
paint operation.

Painting is done to the weights of one bone at a time. You may change
which bone by Ctrl-middle clicking the desired bone.

Like all the brush tools, you have two different brushes: your
Foreground brush and your Background brush. You paint with your
foreground brush using the LMB and the background with the MMB. The
amount of weight painted is controlled by the "FW" and "BW" parameters
respectively.

Each of the brushes also can have its own independent operation. To
select the operation for each brush, use Ctrl-right mouse to bring up
the operation menu. The options are:

- Paint: This paints your new weight onto the geometry.

- Eye Dropper: This takes the weight of the point nearest the center of
your brush and sets it to that brush's painting weight.

- Smooth: This smoothly blends the weights of nearby points under the
brush.

- Erase Changes: This is a local undo - it restores the points under
your brush to the pre-capturepaint values.

The other important parameters are:

- Visualize: This controls how to display the bone's weightings. The
default "bone color" will color each point by the amount each bone
affects it with that bones color. This is useful to see what bone
controls which point. The "false color" will only show that bone's
weights, but allow you to tell with greater precision how much any point
is affected by the bone.

- Radius: The size of the brush.

- Opacity: How strong the brush is. A fully opaque brush replaces the
original weight, while a less opaque brush blends it.

The other Ctrl-right mouse menu options are:

- Circle/Square/Bitmap Brush: The shape of the brush. The bitmap is set
in the operation parameters dialog.

- Orient Brush To Surface: When disabled, the brush is always oriented
the same way. This is useful when painting crinkly geometry.

- Accumulate to Stencil: This advanced option is described in more
detail in the manual.



@related
    - [/shelf/capturegeometry]
    - [/shelf/editcaptureweights]
    - [/shelf/editcaptureregions]
    - [/shelf/mirrorcaptureweights]

