#type: node
#context: obj_state
#internal: subnet
#icon: COMMON/subnet

= Subnet =

"""The Subnet operation is used to create a new logical grouping of
objects."""

The Subnet operation is used to create a new logical grouping of
objects. Subnet objects contain other objects, not SOPs like most object
types. This lets you organize your object hierarchy.

You select the object that will be used as the parent for the new Subnet
object, and right-click to complete the operation. There are no handles
defined for this operation.

The operation controls bar above the viewport provides access to the
Display parameter of the Subnet. When the Display parameter for a Subnet
is set to 0, none of the objects contained in the Subnet are displayed.
When this parameter is set to 1, the Display parameter of the contained
objects are used to determine the visibility of each object. The
operation controls bar also lets you specify which object's transform
should be used as the output from the Subnet. You can either choose to
pass through the transform from one of the Subnet inputs, or to output
the transform of one of the contained objects.

You can change the Subnet object's parent objects any time by hitting
the Reselect Geometry button or typing
`${h.pane.gview.redoselection}`. If Secure Selection is turned off,
selecting new objects will immediately complete the selection and
connect the new parents. Otherwise, you right-click to signify that the
object selection is complete.

If Secure Selection is turned off, you can select any other object in
the viewport. Doing so will switch to the operation appropriate for that
object type, and the current operation will be exited immediately.



